docs: adding new TLS guide for kubernetes (#3341)
vectorizedio/redpanda: docs/www/tls-kubernetes.md

---
title: TLS for Kubernetes
order: 0
---

# TLS for Kubernetes

Talking over the internet with no encryption is something unthinkable these days. With Redpanda you can help secure your data by enabling [Transport Layer Security (TLS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security) across your clusters, with just a few configurations. 

If you haven’t, please check our guide about [Encryption, authorization & authentication](https://vectorized.io/docs/acls/).

Here we will dive deeper into how we can configure TLS inside a Kubernetes cluster.

The Custom Resource Definition (CRD) of a Redpanda cluster includes three APIs: Kafka, Admin and Pandaproxy APIs. Each API can support TLS for server authentication and mTLS (Mutual TLS) for client authentication.

TLS allows us to establish a secure connection between a client and a broker in which communication is encrypted. 

> Mutual TLS (mTLS), or 2-way TLS, is an authentication method in which a client attempting to establish a connection with the server (broker) must present its certificate. This way the server can decide whether the client can be trusted.

Author: I believe with mutual TLS, it goes both-ways. Both the client must provide his information to the server (to be trusted), and the client must accept talking to the server (to trust the server).

```suggestion
mTLS, or 2-way TLS, is an authentication method in which both parties at each end of a network, attempting to establish a connection, must present its certificate. This way both can decide whether the other party can be trusted, by ensuring they are who they claim to be.
```

@coral-waters wdyt?

> Mutual TLS (mTLS), or 2-way TLS, is an authentication method in which a client attempting to establish a connection with the server (broker) must present its certificate. This way the server can decide whether the client can be trusted.

Reviewer: How about this: 
mTLS, or 2-way TLS, is an authentication method in which the client and the server must both present certificates. This way both can decide whether the other party can be trusted by ensuring they are who they claim to be.

> Mutual TLS (mTLS), or 2-way TLS, is an authentication method in which a client attempting to establish a connection with the server (broker) must present its certificate. This way the server can decide whether the client can be trusted.

Author: Awesome. Let's go with that.

> Mutual TLS (mTLS), or 2-way TLS, is an authentication method in which a client attempting to establish a connection with the server (broker) must present its certificate. This way the server can decide whether the client can be trusted.

Author: ```suggestion
mTLS, or 2-way TLS, is an authentication method in which the client and the server must both present certificates. This way both can decide whether the other party can be trusted by ensuring they are who they claim to be.
```

## Getting started

> To demonstrate how to get up and running with TLS in Kubernetes, we’ll use a sample `yaml` configuration file for a one-node cluster.

Author: For Kubernetes we don't use the `redpanda.yaml` file, but rather a configuration file that we can apply to the Kubernetes cluster. So any name can be used, and it can be stored anywhere (as long as when you try to apply it to your network, you have access to said file).

```suggestion
To demonstrate how to get up and running with TLS in Kubernetes, we’ll create a sample configuration file for a one-node cluster. We'll call it `tls_example.yaml` but feel free to name it however you like. You can save it anywhere your Kubernetes network have reading access to it.
```

@coral-waters wdyt?

> To demonstrate how to get up and running with TLS in Kubernetes, we’ll use a sample `yaml` configuration file for a one-node cluster.

Reviewer: Word. Looks good.

> To enable TLS we need to add a listener entry under the API fields in our yaml configuration file, and then specify the subfield `tls` where we can enable TLS.

Author: ```suggestion
To enable TLS, we need to add a listener entry under the API fields in our `yaml` configuration file, and then specify the subfield `tls` so we can enable it.
```

@coral-waters wdyt?

> To enable TLS we need to add a listener entry under the API fields in our yaml configuration file, and then specify the subfield `tls` where we can enable TLS.

Reviewer: Sweet. Looks good to me.

> For example, check that `kafkaApi` now have a new flag that says `tls: enabled: true`.

Author: Just a few lines down, we have a config file with this field enabled for him. We're stating to him, what field is actually activating TLS, for example. 

```suggestion
For example, check down below that `kafkaApi` now has a new flag that says `tls: enabled: true`.
````
@coral-waters wdyt?

> For example, check that `kafkaApi` now have a new flag that says `tls: enabled: true`.

Reviewer: This is my problem with seeing this out of context (which is why google docs is easier). Can we just make sure it's clear that we're adding it to the file? The way it was, it seemed like it was just supposed to appear.

> For example, check that `kafkaApi` now have a new flag that says `tls: enabled: true`.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, check in our sample file down below that we added under the attribute `kafkaApi` a new flag that says `tls: enabled: true`.
```

Save this file as `yaml`:

```yaml
apiVersion: redpanda.vectorized.io/v1alpha1
kind: Cluster
metadata:
 name: cluster-sample-tls
spec:
 image: "vectorized/redpanda"
 version: "latest"
 replicas: 1
 resources:
   requests:
     cpu: 1
     memory: 1.2G
   limits:
     cpu: 1
     memory: 1.2G
 configuration:
   rpcServer:
     port: 33145
   kafkaApi:
    - port: 9092
      tls:
        enabled: true
   pandaproxyApi:
    - port: 8082
      tls:
        enabled: true
   adminApi:
   - port: 9644
   developerMode: true
```

> We’ll use the Kafka API to go through the TLS configuration, but you can use similar settings to set up TLS for the other APIs. For this guide, we assume external connectivity is disabled unless otherwise stated.

Author: For Kubernetes, external connectivity means that you can access a cluster from outside of the network. To enable it, we have to setup a configuration file, with this particular field enabled. 

There's more info here
https://vectorized.io/docs/kubernetes-external-connect/

https://github.com/vectorizedio/redpanda/blob/dev/src/go/k8s/config/samples/external_connectivity.yaml

Basically, to enable `external_connectiviy` we have to setup a flag to enable it

> We’ll use the Kafka API to go through the TLS configuration, but you can use similar settings to set up TLS for the other APIs. For this guide, we assume external connectivity is disabled unless otherwise stated.

Author: @dimitriscruz is it possible to remove this phrase? Is there loss of context or can something malfunction if we have external_connectivity? 

```suggestion
We’ll use the Kafka API to go through the TLS configuration, but you can use similar settings to set up TLS for the other APIs.

```

> We’ll use the Kafka API to go through the TLS configuration, but you can use similar settings to set up TLS for the other APIs. For this guide, we assume external connectivity is disabled unless otherwise stated.

Reviewer 2: The exposed addresses are different when there's external connectivity. Would adding a link to the external connectivity doc be sufficient? Also we could point to the part of this doc that considers external connectivity.

> We’ll use the Kafka API to go through the TLS configuration, but you can use similar settings to set up TLS for the other APIs. For this guide, we assume external connectivity is disabled unless otherwise stated.

Reviewer 3: I think adding a link should be sufficient for now.

> We’ll use the Kafka API to go through the TLS configuration, but you can use similar settings to set up TLS for the other APIs. For this guide, we assume external connectivity is disabled unless otherwise stated.

Author: ```suggestion
We’ll use the Kafka API to go through the TLS configuration, but you can use similar settings to set up TLS for the other APIs. For this guide, we assume external connectivity is disabled unless otherwise stated. If you want to enable external connectivity, check [this guide](https://vectorized.io/docs/kubernetes-external-connect/) that we wrote about it. 
```

> The operator supports a single listener with TLS per API. Additionally, if you have two listeners for the same API and one of them has external connectivity enabled, the operator assumes that the latter listener has TLS enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The operator supports a single listener with TLS per API. Additionally, if you have two listeners for the same API and one of them has external connectivity enabled, the operator assumes that the other listener also has TLS enabled.
```

I'm confused about this - the operator only supports one listener with TLS per api, but then it says if you have two listeners for one api it's assuming they're the same. Can you have two?

Author: @dimitriscruz

Reviewer 2: - You cannot have two listeners, where both have TLS, but
- You can have two listeners, where one has TLS and one does not.

If one of the two listeners has external connectivity, it must be the one with TLS enabled.

Author: ```suggestion
The operator supports a single listener with TLS per API. Meaning that you cannot have two listeners, where both have TLS. It's possible however to have two listeners, where one has TLS and one does not.
```

@dimitriscruz @coral-waters wdyt?

Providing an issuer or certificate to the operator is only available for the Kafka API. 

> ### Client Auth (mTLS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Client Authorization (mTLS)
```

> When you enable TLS, the client has the option of verifying the identity of the server, but to do this the client must have the CA’s certificate available in a trusted store.

Reviewer: my comment on line 18 is referring to this.

Author: @coral-waters do you think we should edit this part the new suggestion as well?

Reviewer: I don't know. I don't know where the first part is anymore.

Author: https://github.com/vectorizedio/redpanda/pull/3341#discussion_r774169125

> We can then enable client authentication (mTLS) on the same listener by setting `requireClientAuth` to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can then enable mTLS on the same listener by setting `requireClientAuth` to `true`.
```

So for example, we can edit our previous `yaml` file to add this new setting: 

```yaml
kafkaApi:
    - port: 9092
    tls:
        enabled: true
        requireClientAuth: true
```

> When you enable client authentication, you must specify a key-pair (certificate and key). As we will later see, the operator can also generate the key-pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you enable mTLS, you must specify a key-pair (certificate and key). As we will later see, the operator can also generate the key-pair.
```

When you finish setting up your configuration, apply it by running:

```bash
kubectl apply \

> -f <your-file-path.yaml>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-f <your-file-path/tls_example.yaml>
```

```

Remember to change to the actual file path that you used. 

> ## Managing Certificates

Reviewer: Can we add a general sentence or two here so this heading isn't empty?

Author: ```suggestion
## Managing Certificates

In this section, we discuss how the certificates are generated, how the renewal process looks like and how you can read or inspect your certificates
```
@coral-waters wdyt?

Reviewer: Minor changes: 
In this section, we discuss how the certificates are generated, what the renewal process looks like, and how you can view your certificates.

Author: ```suggestion
## Managing Certificates
In this section, we discuss how the certificates are generated, what the renewal process looks like, and how you can view your certificates.
```

### Certificates Creation

> The Redpanda operator uses [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io) to generate certificates. 

Reviewer: This is a general question for our docs - if we have a link that's pointing outside our doc set, can we have it open in a new tab?

Author: It's probably possible. Maybe we just have to change it in gatsby configuration files.

> By default, when you enable TLS, the Redpanda operator generates a root certificate for each API and uses that to generate leaf certificates for the nodes and client. You can check what certificates were generated in the section down below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, when you enable TLS, the Redpanda operator generates a root certificate for each API and uses that to generate leaf certificates for the nodes and client. The section below shows you how to check which certificates were generated. 
```

> Specifically for the Kafka API, the operator also offers two options: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Kafka API, the operator also offers two options: 
```

> 1) provide an existing certificate issuer; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Provide an existing certificate issuer
```

I'd also make these a bullet list instead of a numbered list, but it's not a big deal.

Author: Yeah, good idea. There's no sense of progression here, so bullet looks better.

```suggestion
- Provide an existing certificate issuer.
   
- Provide a node certificate.
```

> 2) provide a node certificate. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) Provide a node certificate
```

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: (added this sentence together with the other review)

> This functionality is only available for the Kafka API.

Reviewer: I don't think you need this since you mentioned above that this is for the Kafka api. Do we need to say anything about how this works in the other apis? It's always the redpanda-generated certificate?

Author: We are stressing this because it only works for the Kafka API and not the others (Admin, PandaProxy). 
It's a good idea to ask for feedback on this @vsaraswat

Reviewer 3: We did mention in line 66 that this is only available for Kafka API. I think it is worth emphasizing which other APIs are not available (e.g. Panda Proxy and Schema Registry) because we get these questions every so often. Not sure it needs to appear in two different locations in the doc.

Author: ```suggestion
This functionality is not available for the PandaProxy, and Admin API. If you want to see this feature, feel free to [open an issue for us](https://github.com/vectorizedio/redpanda/issues).
```

> To provide an existing certificate issuer we need to fill in the `issuerRef`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide an existing certificate issuer, we need to add the `issuerRef` parameter to our configuration file:
```

> In the `yaml` configuration file add this section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```yaml
    kafkaApi:
    - port: 9092
      tls:
        enabled: true
        issuerRef:
          name: <issuer-name>
          kind: ClusterIssuer
```

> Similarly, to provide a particular certificate (as a secret) as the node certificate we need to fill in the `nodeSecretRef` field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our other option is to provide a particular certificate (as a secret) as the node certificate. To do this, we need to add the `nodeSecretRef` field:
```

```yaml
    kafkaApi:
    - port: 9092
      tls:
        enabled: true
        nodeSecretRef:

>           name: cluster-tls-node-certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          name: <cluster-tls-node-certificate>
```
That's a variable, right? So is the namespace? I'm not sure

Author: Yes, I agree. @dimitriscruz can you confirm?

Reviewer 2: yeah, `<cluster-tls-node-certificate>` sounds good. This is an arbitrary name provided by the user.

          namespace: given-cert
```

> If the secret is in a namespace different from the namespace of the Redpanda cluster, the operator copies it over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the secret certificate is in a different namespace than the Redpanda cluster, the operator copies it over.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If the secret is in a different namespace than the Redpanda cluster, the operator copies it over.
```

### Reading/Inspecting the certificates

> When enabling TLS, the Redpanda operator generates a root certificate for the Kafka API that is consecutively used to generate a “node” certificate for the Kafka API listener. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you enable TLS, the Redpanda operator generates a root certificate for the Kafka API that is consecutively used to generate a “node” certificate for the Kafka API listener. 
```

2 questions - What does "consecutively" mean in this context, and why is "node" in quotes?

Author: The root certificate is used to generate the node certificate. @dimitriscruz is this correct?
"node" is in quotes because it's not exactly a node certificate. It's a certificate that's used by the node. But it's not a node itself. Does that make sense?

Reviewer: I think the quotes are unclear. Can we spell it out?

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine to remove the quotes, or at most write "generate a Redpanda node certificate", but I think it is assumed.

Author: Addressed.

> If client authentication (mTLS) is enabled, an additional “client” certificate is generated. Each certificate is stored in a Kubernetes secret resource under the same namespace as the Redpanda cluster. The Certificate name is the same as that of the corresponding secret.

Reviewer: Same here. I see that we have a node cert and a client cert. I don't know that they need to be in quotes? Also "certificate" doesn't need a capital C in the second sentence.

Author: ```suggestion
If client authentication (mTLS) is enabled, an additional “client” certificate is generated. Each certificate is stored in a Kubernetes secret resource under the same namespace as the Redpanda cluster. The certificate name is the same as that of the corresponding secret.
```

Author: Same thing as above. It's cert that can be used by the client, but it's not a client by itself.

Reviewer: I think we need to say that.

Author: Addressed.

> Here’s the list of secrets for the Kafka API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kafka API uses the following certificates:
```

> Root certificate

Reviewer: I don't know if you should do this, but the formatting for this is annoying on the website. Would it look better if you put the certificates in a bullet list and put your bullets in an embedded list? Like...

*root certificate
     *blah blah
     *blah blah
*node certificate
     *blah blah
etc

Author: Yeah, I just noticed that. However I still think that we should maintain the table. 
Removing the code fence alleviates the problem.

* Used to generate the node and client certificates
* Secret: `<cluster>-kafka-root-certificate`

Node certificate

> * The node certificate is automatically provided to Redpanda by the operator. In particular, the certificate secret is mounted as a volume that is consumed by Redpanda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The node certificate is automatically provided to Redpanda by the operator. The certificate secret is mounted as a volume that is consumed by Redpanda.
```

* Secret: `<cluster>-redpanda`

> Client certificate (applicable only when client authentication is enabled)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Client certificate (applicable only when mTLS is enabled)
```
Client certification and mTLS are the same thing here, right? Can we make sure we're consistent in referring to it as one or the other?

Author: Yes. For this context, same thing.

* The client certificate is available for consumption. Depending on where the client is located, the client certificate secret can be mounted to local pods or be exported out of the Kubernetes cluster, as long as the Admin API is exposed externally.
* Secret: `<cluster>-user-client`
* Available for client use

> Here’s the table of certificates, the “client” certificates are only needed and generated for client authentication (mTLS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below lists the certificates for each API. The client certificates are only generated and used for mTLS.
```

> <table>

Reviewer: Not a big deal and I want to change the way tables appear in our doc anyway, but without the markdown notation the tables don't have alternating colors for rows or bold headings. I think this might look better though. And it is wrapping the lines instead of making it impossible to read? You could see how it looks if you put the top row and left column in bold.

Author: There's an issue with how Gatsby display tables with code fences right now. I removed the code fences so it's easier to read. 
It's possible to add HTML tags to the table to make it bold, italic and stuff like that. I'll add it for the titles.

Reviewer: Sounds good

<tr>

> <td>Used by/API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td>Used by
```

</td>
<td>Admin API
</td>
<td>Kafka API
</td>
<td>Pandaproxy API
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Node
</td>
<td>

`<cluster>-admin-api-node`

</td>
<td>

`<cluster>-redpanda`

</td>
<td>

`<cluster>-proxy-api-node`

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Client
</td>
<td>

`<cluster>-admin-api-client`

</td>
<td>

`<cluster>-user-client`

</td>
<td>

`<cluster>-proxy-api-client`

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> Each Certificate resource results in the creation of a secret resource of type `kubernetes.io/tls` that contains three components: `tls.crt`, `tls.key`, and `ca.crt`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each certificate resource results in the creation of a secret resource of type `kubernetes.io/tls` that contains three components: `tls.crt`, `tls.key`, and `ca.crt`. 
```

You can check them by running:

```bash
kubectl describe secret <cluster>-admin-user-client
```

> The result should look like this: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Which will return this: 
```

Author: This one I would like to keep because we already have it in other guides. And besides, the results can vary depending on what the user is doing and what names he gave for the things.

Reviewer: The problem with this is the word "should."  - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/s/should-vs-must
Quote from link - "Use should only to describe an action that's recommended but optional. Don't use should to indicate probability. If you can't make a definitive statement, use might or rephrase."

"Should" should not be used in the docs. That will be in the style guide that I write for us someday. I don't care what you say here, but I do think that word should be removed.

```
Name:  <cluster>-admin-user-client
..
Type:  kubernetes.io/tls
Data
====
tls.key:  .. bytes
tls.crt:  .. bytes
ca.crt:   .. bytes
```

> If you want to check their content you can run:

Reviewer: Is there a use case for checking their content? Like what kind of information can it give us or why would we want to check?

Author: @dimitriscruz

Reviewer 2: Yeah, for example a user might want to retrieve the certificates (tls.crt or ca.crt) and inspect them using `openssl`, or copy the data to their client environment when not using k8s.

```bash
kubectl get secret <cluster>-admin-user-client -o yaml
```

`ca.crt` is provided when using a self-signed Certificate Authority (CA), which is the default case but may not be provided as part of the above secret if using a well-known authority.

### Updating/ Renewing existing certificates

The renewing process is done automatically by cert-manager. You can check [how they do it on their website](https://cert-manager.io/docs/usage/certificate/#renewal).

The certificate duration is set by the operator to 5 years.

When this process happens, Redpanda reads the new certificates without needing to restart. 

## Using the certificates

> Now that your server is secured let's see how things work in the perspective of the client. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that your server is secured, let's see how things work in from the perspective of the client. 
```

> Each certificate has a Subject Alternative Name (SAN) that is set to the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of the pods with and without a wildcard prefix:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each certificate has a Subject Alternative Name (SAN) that is set to the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of the pods, with and without a wildcard prefix:
```

```
X509v3 Subject Alternative Name: 
    DNS:   <cluster>.default.svc.cluster.local,
    DNS: *.<cluster>.default.svc.cluster.local
```

The non-wildcard DNS is typically used for bootstrapping. The wildcarded name lets you access instances directly.

> The above assumes that the external connectivity is disabled. When external connectivity is enabled and a subdomain (https://vectorized.io/docs/kubernetes-connectivity/#Using-names-instead-of-external-IPs) is provided the certificates are produced for external use. For example, the SAN entries would become `*.<subdomain>` and `<subdomain>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This assumes that the external connectivity is disabled. When external connectivity is enabled and a subdomain is provided, the certificates are produced for external use. For example, the SAN entries would become `*.<subdomain>` and `<subdomain>`. See the [Using names instead of external IPs](https://vectorized.io/docs/kubernetes-connectivity/#Using-names-instead-of-external-IPs) documentation for more information.
```

Depending on where the client is located in relation to the Kubernetes cluster running Redpanda, the client certificate secrets may be mounted to local pods or be exported and used directly (as files) inside or outside of the Kubernetes cluster, as long as the Kafka API is exposed to the external network.

> There are multiple scenarios for consuming the certificates from a client application. For example, a client can be in the same Kubernetes cluster, can be in the same namespace, can have a requirement for mTLS, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple scenarios for consuming the certificates from a client application. For example, a client can be in the same Kubernetes cluster, can be in the same namespace, and can have a requirement for mTLS.
```
Etc is really unclear and it's best to avoid it if we can. You say "for example" so you don't need to list everything.

> For example, let's communicate with our cluster using `rpk`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, let's communicate with our cluster using `rpk`.
```

Depending on the the connectivity, first we need to get a list of brokers.

For convenience, let's save the result into a variable called `$BROKERS`:

> Internal:

Reviewer: Can we make this "Internal" line and the "external" lines complete sentences?

Author: ```suggestion
For internal connectivity you can run:

```bash
export BROKERS=kubectl get clusters cluster -o=jsonpath='{.status.nodes.internal}' | jq -r 'join(",")'
```

For external connectivity you can run:

```bash
export BROKERS=kubectl get clusters cluster -o=jsonpath='{.status.nodes.external}' | jq -r 'join(",")'
```

```

Reviewer: Perfect

```bash
export BROKERS=kubectl get clusters cluster -o=jsonpath='{.status.nodes.internal}' | jq -r 'join(",")'
```

External: 

```bash
export BROKERS=kubectl get clusters cluster -o=jsonpath='{.status.nodes.external}' | jq -r 'join(",")'
```

After that we can run our `rpk` commands. 

> For example if we only have TLS enabled, we just need to provide the CA: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we only have TLS enabled, we just need to provide the CA: 
```

            secretName: <cluster>-redpanda
...
 containers:
        - name: client
          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /etc/tls/certs
              name: _tlscert_
```

You can find a working example with mTLS here: [https://github.com/vectorizedio/redpanda/tree/dev/src/go/k8s/tests/e2e/create-topic-with-client-auth](https://github.com/vectorizedio/redpanda/tree/dev/src/go/k8s/tests/e2e/create-topic-with-client-auth)

If the client pod runs in a separate namespace within the same Kubernetes cluster, the secret needs to be copied over.

Similarly, if the client is on a separate network, but accessible through an external IP address or name (see [https://vectorized.io/docs/kubernetes-connectivity](https://vectorized.io/docs/kubernetes-connectivity)) the secrets need to become available by copying over the resource or exporting the CA `ca.crt` and key-pair `tls.crt` and `tls.key` as files. For example, to retrieve tls.crt:

```
kubectl get secret <cluster>-user-client -o go-template='{{index .data "ca.crt"}}' | base64 -d - > tls.crt
```

Alternatively, you can retrieve the whole resource:

```
kubectl get secret <cluster>-_user-client_ --namespace=default -o yaml
```

> Once the secrets are available as files, it is possible to use `rpk` to connect with the brokers. Here we consider external brokers, but they could be replaced with internal addresses if accessible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the secrets are available as files, it is possible to use `rpk` to connect with the brokers. Here we consider external brokers, but they could be replaced with internal addresses if accessible.
```

> For convenience, let's create a config file and store our values there. You can pass this as arguments to your `rpk` commands but they can become very long.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, let's create a configuration file and store our values there. We'll create `rpk-config.yaml`:
```

Author: ```For convenience, let's create a file and store our values there. We can pass this whole file as an argument for `rpk` instead of having to retype it all over again as flags. Let's name it `rpk-config.yaml`:
```
@coral-waters wdyt?

Reviewer: Awesome

> Create `rpk-config.yaml`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```
rpk:
  kafka_api:
    brokers:
      - 0.external-domain.:<nodeport>
      - 1.external-domain.:<nodeport>
      - 2.external-domain.:<nodeport>
    tls:
      key_file: tls.key
      cert_file: tls.crt
      truststore_file: ca.crt
```

Pass your saved `rpk-config.yaml` as a flag to `rpk` in order to talk to Redpanda:

```
rpk cluster info --config rpk-config.yaml
```

You can find more examples in our GitHub folder:
* [https://github.com/vectorizedio/redpanda/tree/dev/src/go/k8s/tests/e2e/create-topic-given-cert-secret](https://github.com/vectorizedio/redpanda/tree/dev/src/go/k8s/tests/e2e/create-topic-given-cert-secret)
* [https://github.com/vectorizedio/redpanda/tree/dev/src/go/k8s/tests/e2e/create-topic-given-issuer-with-client-auth](https://github.com/vectorizedio/redpanda/tree/dev/src/go/k8s/tests/e2e/create-topic-given-issuer-with-client-auth)

## Disabling TLS

If you have an use case where you need to get from an enabled TLS configuration to a disabled one, all you'll have to do is to remove the flag from the `yaml` file and restart your cluster.

> 

Reviewer: I'd make this all one paragraph.

Author: You mean like removing the header?

Author: The point is to stress that we do not recommend this to be done. @vsaraswat agree?

Reviewer: My first thought was that this shouldn't be in the doc at all. In general, we should not be telling people how to make things less secure. Unless there's some reason for it, I think we could take out this section altogether. Support can do this kind of thing with the customer, but I don't know that this should be in the product doc. If we do want to keep it, maybe move the "we don't recommend doing this" to the top of the section and put the other paragraph below it?

Reviewer 3: Let's remove this from the doc for now.  If we start getting a lot of requests in community slack on how to disable TLS, we can add back and have clearly labeled as "not recommended."

Author: Removed.

---
title: TLS for Kubernetes
order: 0
---

# TLS for Kubernetes

Talking over the internet with no encryption is something unthinkable these days. With Redpanda you can help secure your data by enabling [Transport Layer Security (TLS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security) across your clusters, with just a few configurations. 

If you haven’t, check our guide about [Encryption, authorization & authentication](https://vectorized.io/docs/acls/).

Here we will dive deeper into how we can configure TLS inside a Kubernetes cluster.

The Custom Resource Definition (CRD) of a Redpanda cluster includes three APIs: Kafka, Admin, and Pandaproxy. Each API can support TLS for server authentication and mutual TLS (mTLS) for client authentication.

TLS allows us to establish a secure connection between a client and a broker in which communication is encrypted. 

mTLS, or 2-way TLS, is an authentication method in which the client and the server must both present certificates. This way both can decide whether the other party can be trusted by ensuring they are who they claim to be.

## Getting started

> To demonstrate how to get up and running with TLS in Kubernetes, we’ll create a sample configuration file for a one-node cluster. We'll call it `tls_example.yaml` but feel free to name it however you like. You can save it wherever your Kubernetes network can read it from.

Reviewer 4: >You can save it wherever your Kubernetes network can read it from.
The kubernetes config file just needs to be available for `kubectl apply -f` right, not on the network of the kubernetes cluster as far as I know?
